.nh
.TH clnkr 1 "clnkr" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
clnkr \- a minimal coding agent (TUI)


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBclnkr\fP [\fB-p\fP|\fB--prompt\fP \fItask\fP] [\fB-m\fP|\fB--model\fP \fIname\fP] [\fB-u\fP|\fB--base-url\fP \fIurl\fP] [\fB--max-steps\fP \fIn\fP] [\fB--full-send\fP] [\fB-c\fP|\fB--continue\fP] [\fB-l\fP|\fB--list-sessions\fP] [\fB-S\fP|\fB--no-system-prompt\fP] [\fB--system-prompt-append\fP \fItext\fP] [\fB--dump-system-prompt\fP] [\fB--load-messages\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB--event-log\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB--trajectory\fP \fIfile\fP] [\fB-v\fP|\fB--verbose\fP] [\fB-V\fP|\fB--version\fP]


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBclnkr\fP is a minimal coding agent with a terminal user interface (TUI), built with bubbletea. It queries LLMs and executes bash commands using a structured JSON turn protocol. It supports both Anthropic and OpenAI-compatible APIs.

.PP
In default mode, \fBclnkr\fP starts the TUI. With \fB-p\fP, it runs a single task and exits. When stdout is not a TTY, \fBclnkr\fP falls back to plain-text rendering.

.PP
At the main idle conversational prompt, \fB/compact\fP summarizes older transcript history while keeping recent context intact for the current working thread.

.PP
At the main idle conversational prompt, \fB/delegate\fP runs a child \fBclnku\fP task seeded with the current transcript and appends a host-generated delegation summary artifact when the child run completes.

.PP
The agent communicates through JSON turns: \fBact\fP (execute a command), \fBclarify\fP (ask the user), and \fBdone\fP (signal completion).

.PP
By default, \fBclnkr\fP asks for approval before each \fBact\fP turn. Pass \fB--full-send\fP to execute commands immediately without approval.

.PP
A plain CLI variant is available as \fBclnku\fP(1).

.PP
Project-specific instructions are loaded from an \fBAGENTS.md\fP file in the current working directory, if present.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-p\fP, \fB--prompt\fP \fItask\fP
Run the given task and exit. Without this flag, clnkr starts the TUI.

.TP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--model\fP \fIname\fP
LLM model identifier (default: claude-sonnet-4-20250514). If omitted, \fBCLNKR_MODEL\fP is used when set.

.TP
\fB-u\fP, \fB--base-url\fP \fIurl\fP
LLM API endpoint (default: https://api.anthropic.com). If omitted, \fBCLNKR_BASE_URL\fP is used when set. If the URL contains "anthropic.com", the Anthropic adapter is used; otherwise, the OpenAI-compatible adapter is used.

.TP
\fB--max-steps\fP \fIn\fP
Maximum agent iterations. 0 uses the default of 100.

.TP
\fB--full-send\fP
Execute every \fBact\fP turn immediately. Without this flag, clnkr asks for approval before each command.

.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB--continue\fP
Resume the most recent session for the current project directory. Saved JSON \fB[state]\fP messages restore the last persisted working directory. Mutually exclusive with \fB--trajectory\fP\&.

.TP
\fB-l\fP, \fB--list-sessions\fP
List all saved sessions for the current project directory and exit.

.TP
\fB-S\fP, \fB--no-system-prompt\fP
Omit the built-in system prompt entirely.

.TP
\fB--system-prompt-append\fP \fItext\fP
Append \fItext\fP to the built-in system prompt after any loaded \fBAGENTS.md\fP content.

.TP
\fB--dump-system-prompt\fP
Print the composed system prompt and exit.

.TP
\fB--load-messages\fP \fIfile\fP
Read a JSON array of messages from \fIfile\fP and prepend them to the conversation before starting. The format matches \fB--trajectory\fP output, so one agent's trajectory can seed another agent's context. Host-generated JSON \fB[state]\fP messages in that transcript restore the current working directory.

.TP
\fB--event-log\fP \fIfile\fP
Write every agent event as a JSONL line to \fIfile\fP\&. Each line is a JSON object with "type" and "payload" fields. Uses O_APPEND for atomic writes, safe to tail from another process.

.TP
\fB--trajectory\fP \fIfile\fP
After the task finishes, write the full message history as pretty-printed JSON to \fIfile\fP\&. Written before exit, even on error. Only applies to single-task mode (\fB-p\fP), not the conversational TUI. Mutually exclusive with \fB--continue\fP\&.

.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP
Show internal decisions (queries, parsing, working directory).

.TP
\fB-V\fP, \fB--version\fP
Print version and exit.


.SH INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
.TP
\fB/compact\fP [\fIinstructions\fP]
At the idle conversational prompt, summarize older transcript history while keeping the recent working thread intact. Optional trailing text is passed to the compaction summarizer as extra instructions.

.TP
\fB/delegate\fP \fItask\fP
At the idle conversational prompt, run \fItask\fP in a child \fBclnku\fP process seeded with the current transcript. When the child run completes, clnkr appends a host-generated \fB[delegate]\fP artifact containing the delegated task and summary. Empty delegated tasks are rejected.


.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBCLNKR_API_KEY\fP
API key for the LLM provider (required).

.TP
\fBANTHROPIC_API_KEY\fP
Fallback API key when using the Anthropic endpoint.

.TP
\fBCLNKR_MODEL\fP
Default model identifier when \fB--model\fP is not provided.

.TP
\fBCLNKR_BASE_URL\fP
Default LLM endpoint when \fB--base-url\fP is not provided.


.SH FILES
.TP
\fBAGENTS.md\fP
If present in the current directory, its contents are appended to the system prompt as project-specific instructions.


.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fP
Success.

.TP
\fB1\fP
Error (no API key, step limit reached, invalid flags, session load failure, etc.).

.TP
\fB2\fP
In single-task mode with \fB--full-send\fP, the run stopped because the agent asked for clarification.


.SH AUTHOR
Brian Cosgrove cosgroveb@gmail.com
\[la]mailto:cosgroveb@gmail.com\[ra]


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBclnku\fP(1)
